1. Clean read and full verbatim: Distinctions
Before you start your test, please read the below information carefully.

1. Clean read and full verbatim: Distinctions
Clean read (most used): Goal – capture what has been said. End result: Grammatically correct transcript, with good reading flow.

Examples: Organization/company meetings, municipality meetings, presentations, etc.

Full verbatim: Goal – capture how something has been said. End result: Precise transcript, as close to audio as possible.

Examples: Research interviews like patient-doctor conversations, speech analysis, legal documents like court hearings, focus group interviews where the emotions of the interviewee play an important role, etc. 



1.1 Clean read
The transcribed text does NOT include:

Speech errors
False starts (unless they add information)
Stutters
Repetitions. Note: Keep repetitions of words that express emphasis: No, no, no. I am very, very happy.
Filler words: Words often excessively used by the speaker but when you take them out, you’re left with perfectly understandable sentences. uh, um, *you know, *like, *I mean, *so, *kind of, well, sort of…
Be mindful of the context. Some of these filler words do not always function as filler words.
Expressions should be kept regardless of transcription type: Oh my God, Oh dear, Oh my, Oh boy, Oh, et cetera.
Slang words must be written as "got you" instead of "gotcha", "going to" instead of "gonna", "want to" instead of "wanna", "because" instead of "'cause" et cetera.
"Yeah", "yep", "yap", "yup", must be written as "yes" or as "all right." Note, do NOT use alright.
Never spell "Ok" or "OK." It must always be spelled as "Okay."
Avoid starting phrases with conjunctions in clean read. If you really need to add the conjunction, just expand the sentence. For example: "I went outside but forgot to bring my umbrella."
For clean read: Omit all the "yeah", "yes" reactions to retain a fluent text unless they are answers to given questions.

DO NOT remove filler words if they change the meaning of the phrase.

Clean Read Example:

Speaker 1: Hey, Amber, I'd like to ask you something.
Amber: Okay.
Speaker 1: Someone told me, transcribers must now complete a theoretical test before they can sign up. I'm not sure if that is true. Is it true?
Amber: Yes.


1.2 Full Verbatim
The text is transcribed exactly as it sounds and includes ALL the utterances of the speakers. Those are:

Speech errors: "I went to the bank on Thursday-- no, Friday."
False starts: I, [uh], wanted-- I have dreamed of becoming a musician.
Filler words: [uh], kind of, sort of, I mean, you know…
Slang words: Kinda, gotta, gotcha, betcha, wanna, dunno…
Stutters: I-I went to the bank last Tu-Thursday.
Repetitions: I went- I went to the bank last Friday.
Only use these forms for the affirmative/negative:
Mm-hmm, Mm (affirmative) or Mm-mm (negative)
Uh-huh (affirmative) or Uh-uh (negative)
Full Verbatim Example:

Speaker 1: Hey, Amber, I'd like to ask you something.
Amber: Okay.
Speaker 1: Someone told me, transcribers must now complete a theoretical test before they can sign up.
Amber: Yeah.
Speaker 1: But I'm not sure if that is true.
Amber: Yeah.
Speaker 1: Okay, uh, is it true?
Amber: Yep.


Next

3.2 Numerical
The number zero up to and including nine need to be written out: one, three, nine
The number 10 and above can be written in digits: 10, 11, 12 etc.
If a number is at the start of a new sentence, it is to be written out fully: Twenty-two people, Three birds, etc.
Use digits if the figure has 5 or more digits: 50,000
Figures that exceed a million or billion are written as 45 million
Use the terms first, second, third, etc., but for higher numbers use 11th, 12th, etc.
If a price is named and it is a round number, do not use decimals: $15
Functions and their mathematical signs are written out fully: plus, minus, times, divided by, etc.
Hyphenate all written-out fractions: Five-eights
Mixed fractions are spelled out in words: five and a half
Use a comma for large figures: 1,003,298 dollars
Use a decimal point for decimal numbers: 0.42 pounds
Phone numbers are written as digits: 201-555-5555

3.3 Time format
Time of the day:
Use numerals when exact time is specified 9:30 in the morning
When using o’clock, spell out the numbers: eleven o’clock.
Examples:

If the speaker says “nine” and it is implied that it is a time of day, write as 9:00
If the speaker says “nine o’clock”, write as nine o’clock or
If the speaker says “nine thirty”, write 9:30
If the speaker says “nine thirty AM”, write 9:30 AM

Spell out words or phrases that don’t include the exact time: half past, quarter of, midnight, noon
Use digits to indicate degrees or radial quantities: 270 degrees, angle of 45 degrees
The following words should be written out in full: infinity, faculty, percent, prime, degrees, phi, theta, etc.
Times and dates are written as digits: June 30, 1934 or the 30th of June 1934
Decades may be written as: the eighties, the 80’s or the 1980’s

Next